# AI Agent for Stock Prediction and Analysis

An AI Agent for stock data analysis, news rerieval, and prediction; powered by Yahoo Finance, GroqCloud, Llama and TheNewsAPI.

## Features

- It gets the immediate 1-year history stocks data for any global stock ticker (Eg: AAPL, MSFT, etc.)
- Automatically recognizes periods of high or low share prices
- Retrieves relevant business/technology news that are linked to significant price events.
- Provides in-depth analysis, Buy/Sell/Hold suggestion, and summarization through an LLM API (Llama LLM, provided by Groq Cloud).
- Saves all the information in a .csv file for further analysis and reference.
- Graphical Representation of the stocks performance using matplotlib.
- A strong command-line interface for handling errors that lets the script run on almost any device due to high versatility.

## Setup

### 1. Clone

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ChanithaAbey/AI-Agent-for-Stock-Prediction
cd AI-Agent-for-Stock-Prediction
```

### 2. Virtual Environment (recommended)

```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use: venv\Scripts\activate
```

### 3. Install dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 4. Add API keys

Create a `.env` file in the project root and add your keys:
```
GROQ_API_KEY=your_groq_api_key_here
NEWS_API_KEY=your_thenewsapi_key_here
```

### 5. Run

```bash
python main.py
```

## Files

- `main.py` - Main script which retrieves and analyzes data whilsnt plotting and storing.
- `news_module.py` - NewsAgent module which provides news, related to stock changes.
- `.env.example` - Example file for enviroment variabes (API Keys)
- `requirements.txt` - Python dependencies.
- `.gitignore` - Standard ignores.

## Notes

- The tool is designed for educational and research purposes. Recommendations are generated by an LLM and **should not be taken as legitamate financial advice**.
- Supports any ticker available on Yahoo Finance.
- Modify or extend the code for more custom analytics or integrations!
- **The author of this program will not be responsible or held accounatble for any consequences of use.**

## License
MIT License | Copyright (c) 2025 Chanitha Disas Abeygunawardena

